# COMP150 - Reflective Journal to Accompany My CPD Report

You should reflect across the first 13 weeks of the course. This is the period from induction week to the Winter vacation. In your reflections, you should try to identify at least one challenge that you experienced and/or obstacle that you encountered that week. Consider which skills and/or characteristics that challenge/obstacle relates to. 

This will prove to be a considerable aid when you need to identify the most important areas of personal development in your report. Do try to keep up by completing an entry in the journal every week.

I also found that playing Space Chem was fun

## Week 1 (24/9/18 to 30/9/18)  
The week itself was a lot fun building Lego robots and programming the robots using MindStorms visual scripting platform. Although I found it hard to meet a lot of new people especially while being in a new place and having to work in teams. It caused me to get a little stressed when trying to communicate within the team and led to me felling a bit out of my depth.

I should do some research on networking and attend events to help with meeting new people and it should get easier the more events I attend.

## Week 2  (1/10/18 to 7/10/18)
I have found it hard to get git setup correctly and learning some of the basic commands of git-bash and to learn how to use tortious git as it’s got more fetchers than I’m used to using in Git Desktop for personal projects.  
After the difficulties with git I watched the videos on learning space and googled stuffing I didn’t understand or wanted to find more out about. As I was doing git research, I created a cheat sheet as I went so, I have quick lookup of git-bash command that I am not that familiar with yet.  
I need to keep this keep this up, so I can get more familiar with git and learn more advanced fetchers and I feel I should use git-scm.org more so I can get a more in-depth knowledge of commands I already know the basics of.
Also, I am really starting to feel well out of my depth and I’m wondering if university is the right path for me. I feel there is not much I can do about right now and I should see how I feel at the end of the first semester, in the mean time I could talk to a tutor about it and discuss my goals to get a clearer vision of where university can lead me along that path.  

## Week 3 (8/10/18 to 14/10/18)
I have found it hard to stand up in front of the class and pitch my game idea. This is something I fell will only get better over time the more I do it. It doesn’t help that I’m still finding it difficult to get to know people, but this is getting better as I’m starting to get settled in although still a bit out of my depth.  
My game pitch didn’t go to badly as my game was chosen but I could have been more prepared. I should have rehearsed my pitch, which I did not do at all and put more planning into the flow of my talk although I did create a slid deck which helped, I could of done more.  
Following the game pitch, we formed into our teams and discussed the game idea, so we had a clear vision of what we wanted to achieve which all went pretty well.  
The first commit to our git was made by another team member which was not structed well, so I cleaned it up a bit and established a structure using functions and classes so I could implement the input system for the game, I also encouraged commenting the best I could.  
I also started work on the player animation, by creating an animation class that takes a sprite sheet then extracts the required sprite depending on the time position of the animation which is then blited to the display surface.  
Its been fairly pleasant and exciting working on our game, but I have been spending to much time drawing sprites for the game so others can do work with out me bottlenecking the rest of the team which has had a bit of a negative effect on me when I just want to code. This should be resolved next semester when we are in multidiscipline teams, I also need to realize I no longer need to create my own assets and for projects like this I should use free assets from the internet.  

## Week 4 (15/10 to 21/10/18)
I mostly supported my team during the week by mostly navigating, while another team member was the driver while we where working on some UI elements, this was mostly focused on UI buttons.  
Over the weekend I started work on a tile editor, so that the designers and end-users can create assets easily. It is able to load all .png file for any directory within the game, reskin them and save to a new .png file. I’ve done this as maintainable as I can but feel that areas could be more improved, as its difficult to understand some of the list, even with excessive commenting. I should seek advice from a tutor to see if there is a better approach, I could also do further research online in places like python.org to see if I can find something that is better suited to the problem.  

## Week 5 (22/10/18 to 28/10/18)
I finished the tile editor as part of my Comp-120 work and included it into our game after our retrospective I realize that it was a bit feature creep as far as the game went but overall I got good feedback.
I missed the guess lecture on networking, looking back at week 1 that was a bad decision, I feel that I needed to catch up with some work and I didn’t achieve as much as I would of like to due to interruptions from my team. After hearing from my peers this guess lecture would of befitted me and I’ve directly learn from this lake of judgment.

I found that it was hard to come up with a research question and do the proposal and I have an unfinished proposal and as a result I’m extremely nervous about the agile essay as I’ve never written an essay before. I should seek as much advice from my tutors as I can about essay writing and techniques for doing academic research.

## Week 6 (29/10/18 to 4/11/18)
This week was Studio practices week which was a good experience as we were left to organize the week ourselves. As a team we did run into a couple of problems thought, we found it hard to achieve our stand-ups for a number of reasons, one was that some talked for the entire allotted time for stand-up and this lead to the odd argument between individuals, as a reflection maybe as scrum master I could of stepped in when they went on to long and say something like "I'm really sorry but we need to move on for XYZ reasons...", another problem we had was some didn’t want to take part in stand-ups so we just left them to do whatever (which I suppose it the right thing to do) and the last problem we had with stand-ups was people turning up late and I was guilty of that throughout the week. My time keeping (especially in the morning) is something I really need to work on by next semester, by the end of the week our stand-ups where pretty much non-existent. Another major issue we has during the week was with version control, we had countless merge conflicts at least 1 a day which caused issues for me as the team would fall back to me to help them resolve it as I was the only person who knows the code base inside and out, this could of been prevented if they all done code reviews on GitHub, this is something that I encouraged throughout the week in person and via our chat channel on discords, I would leave the code for review on GitHub as long as I could before merging, it got to a point where I had to merge it else it would cause conflicts further down the line. I don’t feel that there’s much I can do about that apart from deal with it. During the week it constantly felt like I was ether just fixing conflicts or doing code reviews and not doing any code for the game which lead me to doing all my code for the game while I was at home in my own time. I need to find a way that I can better manage my time in studio, I fell that this is something that I can work on for the next game project and I should seek advice from a tutor. Doing the work at home was also not practical at all as it led to going bed extremely late, it feels like if I can improve my time management in the studio it could help to improve my time keeping in the morning as well.

## Week 7 (5/11/18 to 12/11/18)
This week in comp 110 we have been set math by induction homework which I did not quite understand I felt that I could just google to gain a better understanding, but this seems to of confused me more as we need to do it with TRUE and FALSE statements which I cannot find anything about. I spent the most part of 2 day trying to figure it out but have ended up becoming quite stressed about the situation. I should have got in contact with our tutor on slack to see if he could point me in the right direction and to be honest I should of not left it to the last minute, but it seems that the whole class is in the same boat so I don’t fell so bad any more. I left it to the last minute because we had to do our first essay which was on agile. I have become quite disorganized with keeping track of my research regarding the essay I should make better use of tools such as JabRab to help me keep tack and I intend to do this on the next essay which is due in a few weeks. Also our team seems to be losing focus on the game as a result of essay and I am finding it frustrating that its seams that I’m the only person still working on it.

Ed has extended the deadline on the math by induction homework.

## Week 8 (12/11/18 to 18/11/18)
Ed has gone back over the math by induction homework I it makes a bit more sense, but I am still struggling with it a far bit, so I will see how I do and then I will work on it from there once we get our results back to try and gain a better understanding of it, I think that the best thing I can do for now. 
At the start of the week we have had a peer review on our agile essay 3 days before it is due and it seems I have a lot to do, my biggest issues is spelling and grammar, this is something that I am continually working on and struggle with, I should get someone to prof read it and make better use of Grammaly spelling a grammar software, another one of the main points is that I should of done more research from academic sources which is something I have found to be quite daunting, I need to keep up reading from academic sources and I will focus on it more for my research journal essay due in the next few weeks. I has become a bit of a mad rush to fix the issues and I should of utilized some of the left over time from a PO meeting to get my tutor to review sooner.

## Week 9 (19/11/18 to 25/11/18)
At the end of the week out tinker with audio model was due which I had left a little late to achieve what I was after, but I was still happy with he system that I had come up with. It was due to all the other things that were going on. I also had to make a start on writing my research journal which I have left far too late, I should of starting when it first got set a couple of months ago but I was finding it really hard to start reading academic papers, I’m not find so hard since the agile essay and to be honest I’m actual quite enjoying reading the paper on alpha-beta pruning, iv learned it not that bad when you have a real interest in that area of research. I’ve also been keeping my references much more organized than I did with the agile essay, but I still need to improve my system, I haven’t been downloading the papers and just bookmarking them which has been a major mistake since very few have file names that relate to the paper. I must improve this on the next essay by downloading them and rename the PDF's to the title of the paper, I should also use the Kindle reader to organize them into categories. Also at the end of the week we have been set the task of preparing our investment pitches, an there’s an issues where at least one person each day has not turned up in my team meaning that we have not had the chance to discuss how we are going to go about things, I feel that this is put unnecessary pressure on the team, we'll have to see what happens next week.

## Week 10 (26/11/18 to 2/12/18) 
This week we have had a peer review on our research journal, there’s a lot I would like to change and the feedback would also reflect that as well. The main thing that I didn’t think about was using more modern sources which I will incorporate by deadline and change the direction I was going to facilitate that. I have done much better this time with academic reading and my spelling and grammar. I have become in a much bigger mess with the papers since last week and I’m struggling to find which papers I read what from, I think it might help of next time I take snippets from the papers to help with remembering where I found what, I really need to seek advice with this as I’m having to skim all the papers I’ve read to find where it came from.
My team has still been very slack and it was not until Wednesday that we were all together to discuss our investment pitch which has put a ridiculous amount of pressure on us since it was due on Thursday, and as a result a made a big mistake with one of the numbers in the pitch which I didn’t realized until Friday just before we presented it. I don’t really know what I could of done about my team.
We also got put into our new multidiscipline teams for out next game projects and we have been disusing game ideas which has been going well so far.

## Week 11 (3/12/18 to 9/12/18) 
This week we have our first PO meeting in our new teams and I was 5 minutes last which looks extremely bad, I need to sort my sleeping patent out big time and just leave the house 10-15 minutes earlier which I plan to do by next semester. It’s been hard the last week or so and I’ve been burning the candle at both ends since our pre-production game and research journal are both due. It’s been a bit of a rush trying to fix some of the major bugs in pre-production game which has been the main cause of the lake of sleep, I shouldn't feel like I’ve got to do it all when the rest of the team ant doing that much.

In our new team we have chosen the game to developed, which is an audio game and I personally think it’s a bad idea since we don’t have an audio designer in our team (don’t get me wrong, the game concept is a cool idea), I tried my best to get the point across since iv tried to do an audio game in the past, but it just seemed to of fuelled there augment since I used to do music production as a hobby and the requires a similar system to the game I tried to create in the past, it didn’t seem to bother them that I failed big time. I tried to be constructive about it by suggesting why some of the other ideas would be better suited to us, maybe I shouldn’t of bought up my past to emphasise why I think it’s a bad idea but on the other hand I wanted them to know why I was saying what I saying.

We also had our first introduction to the unreal engine, and this is something that I need to look into over the Xmas holidays.

## Week 12 (10/12/18 to 16/12/18)
This week we have had to pitch our new game idea, which I created a bit of a small example of the audio system in unreal for and I took a bit of harsh criticism for which was far to be honest but in my defence it was due to my lack of knowledge in unreal engine and C++ which I’m going to have to keep up over the Xmas holidays. I also got talked into presenting the sales numbers for the game for the pitch since I gave them some of my previous research form the investment pitch to increases the slide. Game pitches are a real weak point of mine that I really want to improve, I’m really bad at standing up in front of people and talking and is something that I want to improve on more than any think else. I fell flat on my face in the pitch as I didn’t have time to prepare correctly. I need to learn to talk slower and clear, to not panic when it’s my time to talk and to watch more pitches on YouTube and GDC to identify other areas to improve on, pulse rehearsing more before the pitch will help. 
